welcome to Google and in web browsers
weekly sink sink for 23rd of October I
believe 2019
I'm with the trick and hack and we talk
about earrings from agenda feel free to
add to agenda why I cover the first one
which is IP first companion specifically
work in IP of his companion around
improving resilience so in the past
weeks we had a pretty nice contribution
from outside developer who added a way
to recover from flack basically he
created a framework for recovering from
failed HTTP requests and I sort of in
the process of reviewing that I figured
out it's like a wider set of challenges
both technical and UX ones so I created
a project for tracking things related to
this so I call this resilience and
offline and more or less this is work
related to recovering from either
technical failures or things like DNS
censorship blocking or like as well as
overlap with offline use cases often
those things are interconnected so you
can see some stuff already landed in in
the master we did not I don't think
we've released that to the stable
channel but it will eventually bubble up
for now we got this means of recovering
from failed HTTP requests so maybe I
show that it may be easier to see them
to describe so I have a browser with
activist companion installed and right
now we can see read
to local gateway is enabled and if I try
to open a link to a dead gateway this
domain does not exist so it will return
the NS failure however a people's
companion automatically detects this I
give his path and when I open it it
redirected the request to local gateway
so that was already there however what
we did right now is when you disable
this redirect to local gateway and you
try to open this dead link previously it
was would just fail and you will be not
able to open this content however we
have public gateways and even if you
don't run local gateway ipfs companions
should be able to help you to get to the
content you want so what happens now is
if you open this dead link you get
recovered to a public gateway so that's
a pretty good way for healing link rot
related to public gateways that go away
either by it could be the contributor
simply stopped paying for a domain name
or maybe the person just stopped maybe
living that's a bit morbid but it
happens so that way links at with
content addressed paths still survive so
that's for path gateways we have full
request contributed by Colleen as well
to do the same for some domain gateways
to have this like basically a feature
parity for all types of gateways so if
there's a subdomain gateway provided by
Councillor and everyone is using cloud
slur but at some point cluttering
decides we don't want this specific type
of content on our gateway and they start
returning HTTP error codes or simply job
connections akas combined would be will
be able to recover from those
okay edge crisis right now the UX is
kind of not existing because you can see
if I try to open this Dead domain you'd
get the recovery looks the way the
recovery happens we just open the same
resource on a public gateway in a
separate tab however so it may be
confusing to the user I plan to create
issue about this to do maybe the first
time we do recovery for a specific that
Gateway we probably could display this
landing page similar to what you block
is doing when you have a link that has a
lot of tracking embedded in like query
parameters what you block does it gives
you an option to gives you a context
what is happening and do you want to
like go to that URL permanently or just
this time we probably could do the same
thing use that as a means of educating
users so tell like oh this gateway you
are trying to oh like this resource
you're trying to open from a public
gateway we are in your browser is not
able to load it because either server is
dead or DNS query felt or something and
there should be an option to yes open
but just this time or like yeah always
fix dead links from this gateway
something like that
I feel that would be much both like
reduces a surprise that the URL changed
and also like give a means of educating
users about the value I gave his
companion and generally ipfs can bring
into like healing those broken links so
that's more or less the resilience and
offline project I guess that's it on my
hand this is a this is really nice
because I feel like it kind of sets its
up for a second
the suspects it's except for it's kind
of one of the prerequisites for a world
where co-hosting is available and allows
us to react by reserving content that us
or maybe even other people might have
yep and I especially like like this that
we will be supporting like subdomain
school pretty soon because at some point
we will have localhost subdomains and
basically this like we will be reusing
origin based security son boxing for
websites more like simplest manner right
now we would be recovering two DNS that
link but in the future we will be able
to like redirect to local gateway which
which is like the idea end goal for
people to just share links to gateways
and don't care if a gateway actually
exists and if it fails people who would
know oh I just need to dis extension and
stuff will continue working hi do you
want to talk about ipv6 yes I do
last week we talked about like the IP
thing in the end he was to twist instead
new database and keep them from at but
then I was looking and I don't know we
can keep the current for bed in his ipv6
because we used long format of the IP to
store the first in the last one so it
won't be possible with the ipv6 also
there are some variables that change
their names they have also I wonder if
someone could help me the mic
format for these I can finally oh yeah
sorry
totally I I'm wondering if this is this
problem just with ipv6 database for para
P or is it like a general change of the
format for ipv4 as well I'm asking
because the perhaps we could update the
existing library just to like just
update ipv4 and then maybe create a
separate library for ipv6 or a living we
can do that yeah there are some them
there is more information on the new
dataset I don't know if it's worth
including or not we only care about the
country and city I believe right before
for web UI I mean yeah I think like I'm
not familiar with the old data set for
which use case it was like optimized
what I believe I believe like for web
view the current iteration of web UI we
don't want to provide like like the city
is the the granulation level we want to
focus on and probably you know if the
old library does not support that we
could yeah so that does the thing we
don't want to like duplicate data sets
but if we we are able to like optimize
both the size and lookup times for this
specific use case of web UI we may be we
may be looking at the situation where we
wanted specific data set which can be
like configure to when you initialize
this library that's right now it's just
like single data set right and another
thing is like the what we have now only
has like nine fields country code
country named region code
and so on but the new dataset as a lot
of things as much more than what we have
now you know it has time zones if it's
in European Union but the name of the
continent the core of the continent the
country is a subdivision one oh man
code I don't know daddy oh yeah III see
that it's like much wider discussion I
think let's just create an issue in the
ipfs get your IP how to tackle these new
formats if you can like specify what was
in the old one and what's in the new one
with him
yeah I just was under the impression
they basically like just shuffled some
stuff around in their website but this
stuff usually kept was kept the same but
it seems like they revamped entire thing
yeah okay more on that cool performance
and I and CPU consumption of web UI is
there anything left or did you fix
everything hard I added this thanks for
thanks for pushing those issues all the
way down thanks for fixing them
everywhere so I'll do all of that land
for us there's still more work to do
there
the I'm wondering if stairs page is
consuming too much CPU also I told Holly
and it told me we we use the app I'm the
idle bundle has way to refetch stuff
after the number of seconds and that's
not but the bundle is four and they told
me probably that I should take a look at
it to see what it is actually doing I
don't know I don't actually know what it
is doing because it doesn't mean we do
this at a time and I haven't yet but bet
it but about first page I play it's
working why don't I don't know yeah we
are making significant performance
improvements for for the Pierce page
which gets pretty hairy if you have like
thousands of peers and I'm like
specifically first in my local node to
head like 4k of peers just to see how it
impacts performance so yeah I believe
like the CPU consumption of web UI that
was reported in original issue was
mostly for the Quai view for ipfs
desktop use case and that's when like
people keep running Status page in the
background stuff or something like that
so I think that's that one is tackled
however like improvement of peers and
other peers screen will be landing zone
and local peers yeah
so I'd say for the Status page we are
pretty good for for peers page we need
to learn this in there
like in the long run the problem with
the Status page is that we are
constantly polling a belief that
bandwidth starts API and we are polling
that even if we are not on the Status
page so that's like this graph of
bandwidth over time as they has actually
historical data even if you like switch
the different tab which is sort of like
suboptimal but we we would need more we
probably would need more advanced stats
API which has a knowledge of historical
data and but that requires changes to
gotta go ipfs intercept you first so
that's probably something that may
happen if we talk with talk about
API v1 or something like that and start
gathering those needs of API so that are
missing or limitations of existing kpi's
but given that guys we have right now I
don't see we can like improve much that
request wise we could like we remove the
overhead of redrawing canvas that's by
the way I was not thinking about the
nearby peers it will be weird if we have
the whole GOI pic database with the
nearby peers because I will be able to
think to see that for example appear in
the US which is which was in the West
before this is a new my periods months
this was really computing minor just
said but oh yes so if someone is
watching this in the background is that
the girl IP database we have in web UI
is bit out of date and some IP is
naturally get sold and purchased on
moved and reassigned and I had like
notes from
the United States that I had super fast
connection that was faster than la than
light because that IP got reassigned to
Germany but where do I was still showing
that us and I had like from Poland to us
20 milliseconds which is like not
possible
yeah yes but we are working on updating
the IP database so that's the background
we probably should mention that in the
beginning of this section yep
working progress Dietrich takes metrics
yes wanted to see if we have made any
progress on filling out the I believe
four or six boxes in the test matrix
that you designed yeah so those boxes
the problem like like the challenge is I
looked at that this week and the general
maybe not a problem but the challenge is
that we are not using edger in web UI
for anything and all the other apps are
using edgers built-in support for
running tests against node different
browsers different electron context
because there is like the background one
and the renderer one so that's probably
something we need to figure it out first
do we want to create this test
infrastructure oh and another thing is
like those tests when run from J's ipfs
if you want to run web UI test suit from
just ipfs edgier takes care of that
there's like a juror test external
command and that command basically
checks out the repository installs
dependencies and then runs I believe
either build or or just as NPM run tests
so the thing is we need to
figured out a way both to ensure our
test command which would be run by a
juror that's what we want which is
basically like running all the tests and
another thing is make make sure those
there's a way for running those tests
again against different runtimes right
now I think the edge your test external
simply runs those tests and that's it
there's no like way to specify I want to
run those tests against note or
something else so we either run it like
sequentially one after another as a part
of this one command or we extend a Juris
test external with like opt-in
capability to black paralyze those
runtime pipelines so like node fire like
node or like Firefox Chrome and electron
are tested it in separate dr instances
or something like that so that's kind of
more challenging space and and that's
more or less I was mostly trying to
understand what's already there and
what's missing because correct me if I
got this right in web UI we simply
decided when we started do I that's like
edge here at the time was mostly used
for libraries and that's why we did not
pick it because there was like not not
much value added at at that time by
edger
for like end-user application and we are
simply running like just test and I
think we have a puppet here and like
simple puppeteer and to end test which
is sort of like hard-coded to Chrome
so that's a long way for me to say that
we need to like refactor all the tests
the value I to get to the point where we
can like fit them into the mold of those
edge you like test pipelines I'm not
sure if it's useful but that's what I
was able to like figure out this week
that that is incredibly useful so that
means that before we can start filling
in those boxes there are other new boxes
that need to be filled or added are
there issues tracking setting up major
support Firefox nightly I think has
preliminary support for a native
puppeteer rotating efforts at that point
eventually though that mess will be oh
yeah that's the point like Adyar solved
a lot of this stuff already so that's
why I'm like the first thing I want to
see is I'll be able to simply like
either migrate or set up like neck next
to existing tests set up a zero-based
once mostly because like edgy takes care
of all this like orchestration for
running stuff against different like
chromium and Firefox totally I believe
they are either using like Firefox
headless or or maybe this like Firefox
but the tea or something internally Hugo
probably knows that knows details but
that's nice I did not realize that it
takes care of even figuring out all the
browser bits - I thought it was more
like the orchestration of hopefully all
the different repairs oh yeah like you
are able to like ingest ipfs you are
able to run a specific test in a
specific runtime so you can grab just
this test and I want to run it in web
browser and then I want to check if it
also works in electron and and we got
and that's just like one command integer
so I just the that's why I the first
thing I would like to do is to see if we
are able to reuse that because if we
want like if we start
writing custom orchestration for like
puppeteer things for like separately for
Firefox separately for chromium then we
ran into the the issue that ACOG
described like I profess desktop also
it's not using edger so we would have to
like perhaps setup something similar at
some point there so maybe looking if we
are able to switch to edger maybe not
for build but for tests or like a
separate way of running tests if will
will that get us into a place where
other repos can run their tests against
things like web UI under sub so you know
it really ultimately that that's all we
want right we want people to have
configurable ipfs whether it's JCI
professor go and configure web version
against configurable web UI
I guess configurable companion or a
desktop right we need people to have
each one of those be configurable
parameters and say hey go run that sort
of tests so that that we can run our
tests to make sure that change X that
you made against version Y of that of
that repo would works fine I need advice
yeah they're shipping new version of Co
ipfs click a button and it runs all of
our tests don't have to worry about yeah
yeah I believe like we probably want to
replace that like the default test
command to run like everything and then
provide dogs for people who want to just
run like tests in a watch mode when
those tests like reload or just run
tests against the specific browsers but
by default we probably won't have this
like one command to transfer it
sequentially yeah so I probably a
comment on the existing issue when I
posted the matrix I just like was in the
middle of like looking at this before
this call so I want to like finish
looking and probably comment tomorrow
yeah hug the how do you feel about
trying to reuse edger
test for for tests
that's right let's try it let's try yeah
cuz I really don't want to ride this
like you know in past I wrote a lot of
like custom orchestration and it's a
burden to maintain and that's why we
have edger to basically do that even
twice yeah why why would i underscore to
that further I think this was this was
basically the p0 effectively the p0 for
for us for this quarter to you is to be
able to get that testing scenario so
that those boxes are covered or at least
we have the infrastructure to be able do
that or that so other people can run
those tests in a way that is automatable
i think like if when we meet next time
would probably have a better
understanding if we are like going with
Azure and if so how much work what needs
to happen I probably will ask hack on
what's actually happening right now in
end-to-end test because I just look just
briefly look at this did not look at it
before so it's new for me but yeah I
think we can do this and I would spend
some time on trying to reuse edger
because it's probably the like the
cheapest and the best option right now
I added this next issue to you you said
your thing on topics so I just added all
the topic oh oh sorry hi hi can I ask a
question before I have to leave
sure do any of you have resources so
regular files API beyond the docks or
Islands class from camp I'm just looking
to add resources to the new tutorial do
you mean people to review the tutorial
or material to add new edge
educational things to link to instead of
like an issue when where we can like
drop links if we remember them sure I'll
find the link to the tutorial and drop
it here and then you can feel free to
edit expressions there yes yeah I'm
pretty sure I saw something but like
slips my mind nice job thank you
saving me time and also we're still yes
but it we probably should wait a couple
days a little before you buy some yep
thanks for everything when we interrupt
something
after the co Wikipedia let's do so miss
your garden yeah we should what so one
of the things I want to get to is to
where other people where we can have
other people help and jump in on this
with a nice list of things that we know
need to be done and I know Lytle you
were there were some things you wanted
to get done first yeah but if it would
be great if if we eat some people could
even help with those things I can like
maybe I had no time to go back lexico
back to this but last time I went over
age issues I marked some issues related
to the way actual snapshots are
generated and that's probably the file
like T 0 to address first so yeah I
think I think I was wondering to from a
higher level than that when you say
that's p0 do we have a is there a plan
of record yet like what what is the set
of steps that we want to be able to get
to at least automatable
on ipfs snapshots yeah so there are two
issues one issue is like updates
specific mirror and I'll tell you why in
a moment and another is
language-specific came in yeah yeah so
the long-term goal is to automate
snapshot updates so we should like
automatically the technics nap short it
should like be lit in the background and
then human jumps in and simply says okay
this looks good let's let's publish this
however before we go there we need to
first of all streamline and polish the
process of generating snapshots and the
test case which I suggest to start with
is smaller Wikipedia we already have a
mirror of Turkish Wikipedia's that's why
I created tissue for it it's smaller
than the name English one English one is
I believe six hundred fifty gigabytes
this one is around forty maybe so it's
much much smaller and you can
effectively build it in within one day
on regularly like laptop so the task
list is to like create a new snapshot
using the instructions from like with me
see what goes wrong and basically like
right next experience report I had some
like issues with the stras script we had
and other things and then look at the
generated snapshot and see if it has
this canonical link which was an issue
before we search engines fixed and then
we add a footer at the bottom of every
page describing what was the source when
what's generated and sure this thing
works and if those things work we would
pin it and update the DNS link and then
we can
talk with a givers cluster team to set
up collaborative pinning cluster
solution but it's like separating right
so there so there's there's it seems
like there's two discrete parts there
first is the snapshot generation and
that is not my PFS specific at all and
we can have we need somebody to be able
to do some testing on that generation
process to verify that the steps are
correct and the generated snapshot is
correct so that's and then and then
that's something ultimately we like we
just want to put in a docker container
or something like that right so that
people can just so that we can put that
in in automation somewhere and just put
it on a schedule yep
the problem is we are not using the
official xeam extract tool we we like we
created a custom one which enables us to
unpack it and add it to IDF s and then
we do some additional processing so it's
a challenge to streamline the process
because right now if you go to the
readme there's a lot of manual steps
that need to happen
and before we like invite third parties
we should figure it out those scripts
cause those scripts are too complex and
a lot of them simply depend on stuff
that's - all so it's basically some time
needs to be invested into like clearing
this up okay so is there in is there any
Schieffer for that work that needs to be
done mostly yep is under snapshots I
believe there is there's wrapper script
for building snapshots and the meta
issue about making it more usable
those are pretty old but the details are
there and some challenges run down
probably I could go over those issues
and like close them and create like a
single one as right now this all those
problems
scattered across multiple issues and
okay I'm taking notes in the notes as
you're speaking all right
noting which issues but yeah having a
even if it was just a clear plan an idea
of what needs to be fixed will help
other people and I was thinking of
trying to organize just like a Saturday
hackathon or something like that at some
point and get some people together to
hack on some of this and try to get us
prepped for to being fun we can get
stuff in January I I add as a next issue
to there is a browser vendor that is
inquiring about what those patches look
like that Chrome or that brave used to
whitelist the Chrome OS sockets api's in
brave do you have a link to the crow or
the brave changes that they made to be
able to whitelist those for us actually
yes because when you when you're talking
to a browser vendor and okay could you
do some stuff for us like we'd have to
figure out how to do all that
I feel like hey look here's how it's
done like oh we can just flip that and
make a build option or config option
makes this story a lot easier yeah I can
it maybe take longer that I expected but
I will I can add it to notes after the
calm cool and this is it's kind of this
is we talked a little bit about doing a
post browser update post specifically
about the technical details of how the
brain changes were implemented both the
kind of the high jinks that you had to
do inside companion for things like
local gateway and stuff like that
explained people to the the lovely
scenario of reading happy Jas inside of
a Content page inside of a browser and
also some of these some of these unique
bits as well and so that we can get the
of the whole picture it would be really
neat at some point maybe before the end
of the quarter like maybe even during
that week we could just steal an hour
and dump a bunch of stuff in it and oh
yeah
actually it would make a pretty good
blog post because it's more like visual
I believe it's I can write a wall of
text however like I got I can like
sketch something and I got I can make a
pretty good visualization of all those
blocks and how what's inside words and I
feel it visually will look pretty cool
you know it'll look like most people's
client/server diagrams except it's all
running inside the browser like a Rube
Goldberg machine yeah oh yeah and just
like to close on the like what brighten
it to whitelist
access to our api's yeah I find the PR
is the the code is public long story
short is that they're they have an
internal list of blessed extension IDs
and if extension any matches because the
each extension is a cryptographically
signed so each extension if your ID
matches you get access to a specific
specific api's and for companion that
means chrome sockets cool I want
you know well I'll trace that issue if
you've dropped the initial issue we can
spelunk a little bit and find whether or
not they had to do any underlying in the
in the guts of chrome anything to be
able to access those specific API is
exposed them to an extension contacts
let's go looks like that the white
listing is one part of it and I also I
just kind of assumed that in the
internal code those guys weren't
universally accessible either that's
something we can I would probably just
ping Jocelyn about Tim oh yeah I
actually actually found it thank you
drop that in the notes ipfs co-host it's
just a quick update only already moved
to the host repository disappeared so
reviews are wrong yeah so I prefer Scott
host is a website website hosting
solution that ELISA la did before host
it was a thing so initially it was
team-based and now we are moving to it
like the underlying implementation from
being low-level pin api to this like mi
first base yeah I know
can I just yeah like the IP festivals as
ipfs as a dependency and I wonder if we
should remove that in basically
experience the diminished there's no no
online daemon right now and it's an
interesting question well to npx install
and pay executives kaval senate is
downloading
yes yes yeah so that's that's
interesting that's like a separate topic
do do you know if we have like any sure
to discuss that because like that
discussion here is we sort of if we
implement the co-hosting speck in
artifice co-host it's basically like
jeaious library J's up
slash library and then we could reuse
this co-hosting library involved
companion and desktop that I think they
like the question was if we start
thinking about this as a library instead
of like standalone application do we
need to bundle the JSP files demon with
it or should it just be like HTTP client
and like take less space or like have
less the spec dependencies I don't think
we can answer that right now
I know sometimes Indonesia yep and I
will be waiting for you yep just to
clarify so this this PR updates all
these original activist co-hosts scripts
to implement the specification for lazy
co-hosting and all the other comments
all of the co-hosting awesome ipfs yes
who's taking care of us my business once
in a while I take a look at PR zymurgy
some of their my own emergent all of
them but I'm not I'm no authority to
pick what should emerge and what should
not be merged and previously it was who
was him let me just check I'm pretty
sure this question was raised before I
believe it was and it was usually just
people who notice that's this ripple is
not like well-groomed they took it
sometimes is I mean sometimes the guy
from
kids from Brussels from Austria or
Germany he was a type II first camp it
processes some of the issues as well I
see mostly him and hockey in there III
think it's like we probably could
leverage leverage community help with
this like as well make not sure if Jan
Jan is responsible for writing ipfs with
the newsletter and after I believe she
may be either interested in following
those peers for the newsletter but as
well maybe she could help with if she's
reading all those incoming new apps
anyway
gives access some initial filter yeah I
think that the hacks question though
like before we add any people more
people into a tax question is the
salient one which is what is the
criteria that we use to be able to
determine it something I know there's an
open issue for that in that repo and no
clear answer so I think may like maybe
if maybe if maybe if maybe it next week
at this meeting if we dedicate maybe 15
20 minutes to just saying okay what if
we develop what would those criteria be
how could we write them up in a way that
it's easy and for anyone who walks up to
the repo to build to implement fairly
and then anybody else can walk up and do
it that would be oh yeah it should be
basically everything down yeah
at least that is used to evaluating PR
so totally right I mean I think there's
a there's a separate set of issues
around the usability of adding PRS to
begin with like you have to add stuff in
a bunch of different places we also
probably have a separate problem around
things that were added
there are no longer maintained at this
point we have a lot of stuff there the
CI checks if or website exists okay so
sometimes I remove the ones that are
failing but if the link is for the IP
fest gateway it is it does not it is not
checked because it might fail just
because okay I I wonder if yeah if I was
like I wonder if anybody else's is using
that to as a pinning service how often
is the CI check that I think it's just
on merchant commit so not a very
reliable cleaning service yeah it
doesn't check IP first URL so just
spinning anyway all right I think that's
a good plan and probably if we don't
allocate those like five minutes to ten
minutes next week we want a 25 minute
yep that's mini do but having some sort
of like a policy or criteria certainly
hope there are like 21 pr's and I don't
know what to do with them there are some
from August left here I'm thinking about
closing the ones where we asked
something they did not reply yeah
another option is for this specific
reporter like bots who like close issues
and PRS which were not like merged
within a time window or not to like
receive reply so that would remove the
burden of like going over like 20 PRS
and saying if there's any updates or
something
cool anything else are we so efficient
that we finished five minutes before
before the end of the hour that was
those good stuff though I'm well spent
all right
can you hear the construction that's
happening it's directly below my four
glorious sounds alright take care bye
y'all